Docs for http batch for On prem (#229)
speechmatics/docs: docs/deployments/container/batch-persistent-worker.mdx

This gives you:
- **No per-job cold start.** The models are loaded into memory once. Every subsequent job skips the startup cost entirely.
- **Concurrent processing.** The `--parallel` flag controls how many processing units the worker handles simultaneously. Individual jobs can also be assigned multiple processing units(called `engines` in this document) to reduce their own turnaround time.

The worker exposes an HTTP API for submitting jobs, polling status, fetching transcripts, and checking availability.

## Why use a persistent worker?

| | Standard batch | Persistent worker |
|---|---|---|
| Startup cost | Per job | Once |
| Memory usage | One container per job | Multiple jobs share one container |
| CPU/GPU utilisation | Interrupted between jobs | Continuous |
| Best for | Large, infrequent files | High throughput or smaller files |

> **Cold start overhead is significant for short audio.** Loading the ASR models — especially onto GPU — takes several seconds. For a 5-minute file this cost is negligible. For a 10-second clip, startup can take longer than transcription itself. The persistent worker eliminates this by loading the models once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Cold start overhead is significant for short audio.** Loading the ASR models — especially onto GPU — takes several seconds. For a five minute file this cost is negligible. For a ten second clip, startup can take longer than transcription itself. The persistent worker eliminates this by loading the models once.
```

**High-throughput workloads benefit from a single long-lived container.** Routing many jobs to one worker is more efficient than launching a container per job. The `--parallel` setting lets you tune concurrency to your workload.

**GPU utilisation is maximised.** On GPU deployments, a standard batch container leaves the GPU idle between jobs. A persistent worker keeps the GPU warm and available, reducing wasted capacity across back-to-back requests.

> When processing long audio jobs the benefits on RTF of the Persistent batch worker is negligible, and the resultant RTF is similar to that of a standard batch job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When processing long audio jobs the benefits on RTF of the persistent batch worker is negligible, and the resultant RTF is similar to that of a standard batch job.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Deploying the worker

### Docker

<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`docker run -it \
  -e LICENSE_TOKEN=$TOKEN_VALUE \
  -p PORT:18000 \
  batch-asr-transcriber-en:${smVariables.latestContainerVersion} \
  --run-mode http \
  --parallel=4 \
  --all-formats /output_dir_name`}
</CodeBlock>

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|---|---|
| `--parallel` | Number of parallel engines (each engine maps to one GPU connection when on GPU container). |

> | `--all-formats` | Directory where all job outputs and logs are saved. If omitted, defaults to `/tmp/jobs`. See [Generating multiple transcript formats](https://docs.speechmatics.com/deployments/container/cpu-speech-to-text#generating-multiple-transcript-formats) for details. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `--all-formats` | Directory where all job outputs and logs are saved. If omitted, defaults to `/tmp/jobs`. See [generating multiple transcript formats](https://docs.speechmatics.com/deployments/container/cpu-speech-to-text#generating-multiple-transcript-formats) for details. |
```

| `PORT` | The local port forwarded to the container's internal port (`18000`). |

#### Environment variables

| Variable | Description |
|---|---|
| `SM_BATCH_WORKER_LISTEN_PORT` | Override the default internal port (`18000`). |
| `SM_BATCH_WORKER_MAX_JOB_HISTORY` | Maximum number of completed job records to retain in memory. |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Submitting a job

> Once the worker is running and is available, submit jobs by `POST`ing to `/v2/jobs` with an audio file and a transcription config. The worker queues the job and returns a `job_id` immediately; poll [`GET /v2/jobs/{job_id}`](#get-v2jobsjob_id) for status, then fetch the transcript once it reaches `DONE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the worker is running and is available, submit jobs by making a `POST` request to `/v2/jobs` with an audio file and transcription config. The worker queues the job and returns a `job_id` immediately. You can poll [`GET /v2/jobs/{job_id}`](#get-v2jobsjob_id) for the job status, and fetch the transcript when the status changes to `DONE`.
```

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="curl" label="curl" default>

```bash
curl -X POST address.of.container:PORT/v2/jobs \
  -H 'X-SM-Processing-Data: {"parallel_engines": 2, "user_id": "MY_USER_ID"}' \
  -F 'config={
    "type": "transcription",
    "transcription_config": {
      "language": "en",
      "diarization": "speaker",
      "operating_point": "enhanced"
    }
  }' \
  -F 'data_file=@~/audio_file.mp3'
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="python" label="Python SDK">

```python
import asyncio
import os
from dotenv import load_dotenv
from speechmatics.batch import AsyncClient

load_dotenv()

async def main():
    client = AsyncClient(
        api_key=os.getenv("SPEECHMATICS_API_KEY"),
        url="address.of.container:PORT/v2"
    )
    result = await client.transcribe(
        "audio.wav",
        parallel_engines=2,
        user_id="MY_USER_ID"
    )
    print(result.transcript_text)
    await client.close()

asyncio.run(main())
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Managing capacity

The worker processes multiple jobs concurrently, up to the `--parallel` limit you set at startup.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  -F 'config={"type": "transcription", "transcription_config": {"language": "en"}}' \
  -F 'data_file=@~/audio_file.mp3'
```

:::warning
If a job requests more engines than are currently available, it will be rejected:

```
HTTP 503: {"detail": "Server busy: 8 engines not available (2 engines in use, 5 parallel allowed)"}
```
:::

## Speaker identification

To enable the Speaker identification feature you can use the same logic used for the one shot [batch container](/speech-to-text/features/speaker-identification).
To enable per-customer encrypted identifiers (as used in our SaaS offering), pass a `user_id` in the `X-SM-Processing-Data` header.

```bash
curl -X POST address.of.container:PORT/v2/jobs \
  -H 'X-SM-Processing-Data: {"user_id": "MY_USER_ID"}' \
  -F 'config={
    "type": "transcription",
    "transcription_config": {
      "language": "en",
      "diarization": "speaker",
      "operating_point": "enhanced"
    }
  }' \
  -F 'data_file=@~/audio_file.mp3'
```

:::info
For details on secrets management, refer to the [Speaker identification documentation](/deployments/container/speaker-identification).
:::

## Job API reference

> The API is made on purpose similar to our [V2 SaaS API](/api-ref/batch/create-a-new-job) to ease integration to our SaaS, and be able to use both SaaS and On-prem interchangeably.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HTTP batch worker API is similar to our [V2 SaaS API](/api-ref/batch/create-a-new-job). This makes it easy to use our SaaS and on-prem offerings interchangeably. The only differences between the SaaS API and our HTTP workers are:
```

There are some difference between the SaaS vs On-prem API outlined below:

> #### For the Batch persistent worker:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We don't support:
- The `include_deleted` parameter in the `GET /v2/jobs` call.

> - 'GET /v2/usage` call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `GET /v2/usage` call.
```

For the API call `GET /v2/jobs/{job_id}`, we also return the `request_id` as part of the response.

## Health endpoints

> The worker exposes three health endpoints on the same port as job submission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The worker exposes two health endpoints on the same port as job submission.
```

---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'
import { smVariables } from "/sm-variables";

# Batch persistent worker

:::note
Available from version 15.7.0
:::

A batch persistent worker (also called an **HTTP batch worker**) is a long-running transcription service that accepts jobs over HTTP. Unlike standard batch workers, it stays alive between jobs — meaning you pay the startup cost once, not on every request.

## Why use a persistent worker?

| | Standard batch | Persistent worker |
|---|---|---|
| Startup cost | Per job | Once |
| Memory usage | One container per job | Multiple jobs share one container |
| CPU/GPU utilisation | Interrupted between jobs | Continuous |
| Best for | Large, infrequent files | High throughput or smaller files |

The persistent worker is especially beneficial for smaller audio files, where startup overhead would otherwise dominate total turnaround time.

## Starting the worker

```bash
docker run -it \
  -e LICENSE_TOKEN=$TOKEN_VALUE \
  -p PORT:18000 \
  batch-asr-transcriber-en:${smVariables.latestContainerVersion} \
  --run-mode http \
  --parallel=4 \

>   --all-formats /output_dir_name

Reviewer 2: Do we need to define --all-formats here?
I would expect to see a volume map for a local folder when using --all-formats with a standard batch container

Author: You don't need to. It's up to the client if they want job outputs and logs saved. If omitted, defaults to `/tmp/jobs`.
As we say on the parameter description below (we also got a link to how to properly use that and volume mount) in the description of the --all-formats

      "data_name": "5_min",
      "text_name": null,
      "duration": 300,
      "status": "RUNNING",
      "config": {
        "type": "transcription",
        "transcription_config": {
          "language": "en",
          "diarization": "speaker",
          "operating_point": "enhanced"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### `GET /v2/jobs/{job_id}`

Returns the status of a specific job.

**Example response:**

```json
{
  "job": {
    "id": "191f47e4a4204fa4ac2b",
    "created_at": "2026-03-18T19:27:42.436Z",
    "data_name": "5_min",
    "duration": 300,
    "status": "DONE",
    "config": {
      "type": "transcription",
      "transcription_config": {
        "language": "en",
        "diarization": "speaker",
        "operating_point": "enhanced"
      }
    },
    "request_id": "191f47e4a4204fa4ac2b"
  }
}
```

### `GET /v2/jobs/{job_id}/transcript`

Returns the transcript for a completed job.

**Query parameters:**

| Parameter | Options |
|---|---|
| `format` | `json`, `txt`, `srt` |

**Error responses:**

| Code | Reason |
|---|---|
| `404` | Job not found, job not yet complete (includes current status), or unsupported format |

> ### `GET /v2/jobs/{job_id}/log`

Reviewer 2: This is returning no information for me (HEAD-20260407-c5d38021aa)
`{"detail": "Log for job ID db5e05c50cd84465ac35 not found"}`

Author: Pinged him internally as I can't repro this

Author: This was a valid issue. It seems to be due to logger verbosity. If the verbosity is not high, no logs are produced.
I have added new error messages but they will come in the next release of the worker.
I have also added a comment on the docs to make things more clear
https://github.com/speechmatics/docs/pull/229/changes/4aa576e1400985c355981378490b40d79c78fdd1

---
id: batch-persistent-worker

> title: Batch Persistent Worker

Reviewer 3: Batch Persistent Worker -> Batch persistent worker

> sidebar_label: Batch Persistent Worker

Reviewer 3: Batch Persistent Worker -> Batch persistent worker

description: Run a long-lived HTTP transcription worker that accepts multiple jobs without restarting, reducing turnaround time and improving GPU utilisation.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

> import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Reviewer 3: import { smVariables } from "/sm-variables";

as we will be using the ${smVariables.latestContainerVersion}

> # Batch Persistent Worker

Reviewer 3: Batch persistent worker (is the format recommended https://speechmatics.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/OCE/pages/4858937507/Docs+Style+Guide#Core-writing-principles)

:::note

> Available from version 15.5.0

Reviewer 3: We will be releasing 15.7.0 (latest version deployed to SaaS).

:::

A batch persistent worker (also called an **HTTP batch worker**) is a long-running transcription service that accepts jobs over HTTP. Unlike standard batch workers, it stays alive between jobs — meaning you pay the startup cost once, not on every request.

> ---

Reviewer: These dividers between sections should be removed as they are not how we format things in the docs

> ## Why use a persistent worker?

Reviewer: IMO the trade-offs between persistent and non-persistent workers are not clear to me here. Why are non-persistent workers better for large, infrequent files? Why would I choose one or the other? (I know but I think someone who doesn't have context on how the system works in production will struggle based on this to understand the logic of the trade-offs involved)

| | Standard batch | Persistent worker |
|---|---|---|
| Startup cost | Per job | Once |
| Memory usage | One container per job | Multiple jobs share one container |
| GPU utilisation | Interrupted between jobs | Continuous |
| Best for | Large, infrequent files | High throughput or smaller files |

The persistent worker is especially beneficial for smaller audio files, where startup overhead would otherwise dominate total turnaround time.

---

> ## Starting the worker

Reviewer 3: also we should add details for using the GPU server similar to https://docs-git-feature-http-batch-docs-speechmatics.vercel.app/deployments/container/batch-persistent-worker#

```bash
docker run -it \
  -e LICENSE_TOKEN=$TOKEN_VALUE \
  -p PORT:18000 \

>   batch-asr-transcriber-en:15.5.0 \

Reviewer 3: batch-asr-transcriber-en:15.5.0 -> batch-asr-transcriber-en:${smVariables.latestContainerVersion}

  --run-mode http \
  --parallel=4 \
  --all-formats /output_dir_name
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|---|---|

> | `--parallel` | Number of parallel engines (each engine maps to one GPU connection). Increase this to improve throughput, up to your GPU's capacity. |

Reviewer: It would be good to define the concept of an engine somewhere explicitly

Author: Have added a bit saying its the single processing unit

> | `--parallel` | Number of parallel engines (each engine maps to one GPU connection). Increase this to improve throughput, up to your GPU's capacity. |

Reviewer 3: This reminds of the System requirements for the batch workers and the recommendations for parallel engine configs. Do we need to add a dedicated section for batch worker similar to batch job https://docs.speechmatics.com/deployments/container/cpu-speech-to-text#system-requirements

Author: The requirements should be similar to the cpu for cpu and gpu for gpu, so each platform already has, not sure if we will gain anything to add them here again.

I removed the gpu reference

> | `--parallel` | Number of parallel engines (each engine maps to one GPU connection). Increase this to improve throughput, up to your GPU's capacity. |

Reviewer 3: `Number of parallel engines (each engine maps to one GPU connection). Increase this to improve throughput, up to your GPU's capacity.`

Should we need to reword to include the CPU related info or remove the GPU details as currently it hints as GPU only config.

Author: Honestly what ever we do is wrong

> | `--all-formats` | Directory where all job outputs and logs are saved. If omitted, defaults to `/tmp/jobs`. See [Generating multiple transcript formats](#) for details. |

Reviewer 3: [Generating multiple transcript formats] link to fixed

Author: Added back in as was removed by claude changes

| `PORT` | The local port forwarded to the container's internal port (`18000`). |

:::tip
To use a different internal port, set the `SM_BATCH_WORKER_LISTEN_PORT` environment variable.
:::

---

## Submitting a job

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="curl" label="curl" default>

```bash
curl -X POST address.of.container:PORT/v2/jobs \
  -H 'X-SM-Processing-Data: {"parallel_engines": 2, "user_id": "MY_USER_ID"}' \
  -F 'config={
    "type": "transcription",
    "transcription_config": {
      "language": "en",
      "diarization": "speaker",
      "operating_point": "enhanced"
    }
  }' \
  -F 'data_file=@~/audio_file.mp3'
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="python" label="Python SDK">

```python
import asyncio
import os
from dotenv import load_dotenv
from speechmatics.batch import AsyncClient

load_dotenv()

async def main():
    client = AsyncClient(
        api_key=os.getenv("SPEECHMATICS_API_KEY"),

>         url="address.of.container:PORT/v2"

Reviewer: This is a non-standard way of communicating elements that need to be filled in by users, I'd suggest changing to something like:

```suggestion
        url="http://ADDRESS:PORT/v2"
```

Author: I used what the standard of the docs was already there, check docs\deployments\container\cpu-speech-to-text.mdx

Happy to change it but if I do I will change it everywhere, there are discrepancies everywhere in the docs

Reviewer: Okay, let's fix separately then!

    )
    result = await client.transcribe(
        "audio.wav",
        parallel_engines=2,
        user_id="MY_USER_ID"
    )
    print(result.transcript_text)
    await client.close()

asyncio.run(main())
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Response codes

| Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| `201` | Job accepted. Returns `{"job_id": "abcdefgh01"}` |
| `400` | Invalid request |
| `503` | Server busy — not enough free engines |

> ---

Reviewer: Is this section necessary, given that the container basically follows the spec that's already provided in the batch jobs spec page? I would suggest deleting it completely

Author: Its not exactly the same, there are extra bits (and some are new endpoints)

## Managing capacity

The worker processes multiple jobs concurrently, up to the `--parallel` limit you set at startup.

Each job can request multiple engines using the `parallel_engines` value in the `X-SM-Processing-Data` header. More engines per job means faster turnaround for that job, at the cost of reduced concurrency for others.

To check available capacity before submitting, query the [`/jobs` health endpoint](#get-jobs). The `unused_engines` field tells you how many engines are free.

:::warning
If a job requests more engines than are currently available, it will be rejected:

```
HTTP 503: {"detail": "Server busy: 8 engines not available (2 engines in use, 5 parallel allowed)"}
```
:::

### Requesting parallel engines

```bash

> curl -X POST address.of.container:PORT/v2/jobs \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST http://ADDRESS:PORT/v2/jobs \
```

  -H 'X-SM-Processing-Data: {"parallel_engines": 2}' \
  -F 'config={"type": "transcription", "transcription_config": {"language": "en"}}' \
  -F 'data_file=@~/audio_file.mp3'
```

---

## Speaker identification

> To enable the [Speaker identification](/speech-to-text/features/speaker-identification) feature you can use the same logic used for the one shot batch container.

Reviewer: What is the logic used for the one shot batch container?

To enable per-customer encrypted identifiers (as used in our SaaS offering), pass a `user_id` in the `X-SM-Processing-Data` header.

```bash

> curl -X POST address.of.container:PORT/v2/jobs \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST http://ADDRESS:PORT/v2/jobs \
```

  -H 'X-SM-Processing-Data: {"user_id": "MY_USER_ID"}' \
  -F 'config={
    "type": "transcription",
    "transcription_config": {
      "language": "en",
      "diarization": "speaker",
      "operating_point": "enhanced"
    }
  }' \
  -F 'data_file=@~/audio_file.mp3'
```

:::info
For details on secrets management, refer to the [Speaker identification documentation](/deployments/container/speaker-identification).
:::

---

> ## Job API reference

Reviewer: I don't believe this section provides anything different to the jobs API spec page, so IMO probably should be removed or just referenced

Author: Its not exactly the same job api, there are extra bits (and some are new endpoints)

Reviewer: What's different? I can't see anything different from the usual spec in here, except maybe request_id?

Author: I have removed and outline the differences expected between the two.

e.g:

`GET /v2/jobs` - > we dont support `include_deleted`

`GET /v2/jobs/{job_id}` -> We also return the `request_id`

We don't support Get usage -> /v2/usage on persistent worker

### `GET /v2/jobs`

Returns a list of jobs.

> **Query parameters:**

Reviewer 3: Just want to double check if created_before and limit are available as query parameter.

          "diarization": "speaker",
          "operating_point": "enhanced"
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "id": "6dcb02e0dc5943e2b643",
      "created_at": "2026-03-18T19:27:47.550Z",
      "data_name": "5_min",
      "text_name": null,
      "duration": 300,
      "status": "RUNNING",
      "config": {
        "type": "transcription",
        "transcription_config": {
          "language": "en",
          "diarization": "speaker",
          "operating_point": "enhanced"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

---

### `GET /v2/jobs/{job_id}`

Returns the status of a specific job.

**Example response:**

```json
{
  "job": {
    "id": "191f47e4a4204fa4ac2b",
    "created_at": "2026-03-18T19:27:42.436Z",
    "data_name": "5_min",
    "duration": 300,
    "status": "DONE",
    "config": {
      "type": "transcription",
      "transcription_config": {
        "language": "en",
        "diarization": "speaker",
        "operating_point": "enhanced"
      }
    },
    "request_id": "191f47e4a4204fa4ac2b"
  }
}
```

---

### `GET /v2/jobs/{job_id}/transcript`

Returns the transcript for a completed job.

**Query parameters:**

| Parameter | Options |
|---|---|

> | `format` | `json`, `txt`, `srt` |

Reviewer 3: Similarly want to just double check we support the format query parameter.

**Error responses:**

| Code | Reason |
|---|---|
| `404` | Job not found, job not yet complete (includes current status), or unsupported format |

---

### `GET /v2/jobs/{job_id}/log`

Returns the processing logs for a specific job.

---

## Health endpoints

The worker exposes three health endpoints on the same port as job submission.

:::tip Kubernetes users
These endpoints are designed to work as [liveness and readiness probes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-startup-probes/) in a Kubernetes cluster.
:::

### `GET /jobs`

Returns current engine usage and a list of active jobs. Use `unused_engines` to determine how many engines you can request for the next job.

**Example response:**

```json
{
  "active_jobs": [
    { "job_id": "f8a564954b334eecb823", "parallel_engines": 1 },
    { "job_id": "29351ae8cf2c4e8694f0", "parallel_engines": 1 }
  ],
  "max_engines": 8,
  "unused_engines": 6
}

> ```

Reviewer: This whole sections feels really fundamental to understanding how to deploy these containers effectively (but tbh I don't know enough about it to know if this is true). If using this endpoint is essential to getting the best out of persistent workers, it might be worth expanding on how this endpoint can be used in a production environment to run the system well

Author: I believe `Managing capacity`  explains how do that

Reviewer: Maybe then this API spec explanation should be included in that section to make the link between the two explicit?

Author: Refactored, and moved under managing capacity

---

### `GET /live`

Liveness probe. Returns `200` when all container services are running and healthy.

```json
{ "live": true }
```

---

### `GET /ready`

Readiness probe. Returns `200` when at least one engine slot is free, `503` when all engines are occupied.

```json
{
  "ready": true,
  "engines_used": 2
}
```

---

> ## Environment variables

Reviewer: These should be towards the top of the page IMO. I think the structure of the page should be something like:
* What are persistent workers?
* Why persistent workers vs. non-persistent?
* How to deploy persistent workers (which includes envs) - this sections might include liveness and readiness stuff
* How to use persistent workers

Author: I have refactored a bit the docs, to follow the proposed pattern

## Deploying the worker

### Docker

<CodeBlock language="bash">
{`docker run -it \
  -e LICENSE_TOKEN=$TOKEN_VALUE \
  -p PORT:18000 \
  batch-asr-transcriber-en:${smVariables.latestContainerVersion} \
  --run-mode http \
  --parallel=4 \
  --all-formats /output_dir_name`}
</CodeBlock>

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|---|---|
| `--parallel` | Number of parallel engines (each engine maps to one GPU connection when on GPU container). |
| `--all-formats` | Directory where all job outputs and logs are saved. If omitted, defaults to `/tmp/jobs`. See [Generating multiple transcript formats](https://docs.speechmatics.com/deployments/container/cpu-speech-to-text#generating-multiple-transcript-formats) for details. |
| `PORT` | The local port forwarded to the container's internal port (`18000`). |

#### Environment variables

| Variable | Description |
|---|---|
| `SM_BATCH_WORKER_LISTEN_PORT` | Override the default internal port (`18000`). |
| `SM_BATCH_WORKER_MAX_JOB_HISTORY` | Maximum number of completed job records to retain in memory. |

## Submitting a job

> Once the worker is running and is available, submit jobs by `POST`ing to `/v2/jobs` with an audio file and a transcription config. The worker queues the job and returns a `job_id` immediately; poll [`GET /v2/jobs/{job_id}`](#get-v2jobsjob_id) for status, then fetch the transcript once it reaches `DONE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Submitting a job

Once the worker is running and is available, submit jobs by `POST`ing to `/v2/jobs` with an audio file and a transcription config. The worker queues the job and returns a `job_id` immediately; poll [`GET /v2/jobs/{job_id}`](#get-v2jobsjob_id) for status, then fetch the transcript once it reaches `DONE`.
```

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="curl" label="curl" default>

```bash
curl -X POST address.of.container:PORT/v2/jobs \
  -H 'X-SM-Processing-Data: {"parallel_engines": 2, "user_id": "MY_USER_ID"}' \
  -F 'config={
    "type": "transcription",
    "transcription_config": {
      "language": "en",
      "diarization": "speaker",
      "operating_point": "enhanced"
    }
  }' \
  -F 'data_file=@~/audio_file.mp3'
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="python" label="Python SDK">

```python
import asyncio
import os
from dotenv import load_dotenv
from speechmatics.batch import AsyncClient

load_dotenv()

async def main():
    client = AsyncClient(
        api_key=os.getenv("SPEECHMATICS_API_KEY"),
        url="address.of.container:PORT/v2"
    )
    result = await client.transcribe(
        "audio.wav",
        parallel_engines=2,
        user_id="MY_USER_ID"
    )
    print(result.transcript_text)
    await client.close()

asyncio.run(main())
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Response codes

| Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| `201` | Job accepted. Returns `{"job_id": "abcdefgh01"}` |
| `400` | Invalid request |
| `503` | Server busy — not enough free engines |

> 

Reviewer: Please remove, I don't think this is useful or the right way to format it!

Author: Removed
